[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
charlie state and
naga manchester our headlines today
the final preparations for the funeral
of the duke of edinburgh
a land rover hearst will carry the
coffin to the ceremony on saturday
princes william and harry will be among
those following but they won't walk next
to each other
police in chicago released footage of an
officer shooting dead a 13 year old
in a dark alley lock down restrictions
eased in scotland from today
people can leave their local area and
meet up in groups of up to six adults
and good morning from the lake district
more of us
are holidaying closer to home this year
and destinations like this are gearing
up for the first weekend of the season
we could be set for an all premier
league final in the europa league as
both manchester united and arsenal reach
the last four with the londoners
dominating
in prague
plus it's 125 years since the national
trust bought their first property
this one alphastone clergy house in east
sussex i'll be taking a look around
and also bringing the forecast it's a
cold start but for most it will be
another dry day join us for it all here
on breakfast
good morning it's friday the 16th of
april our top story is that final
preparations are being made ahead of the
duke of edinburgh's funeral
it will take place at st george's chapel
in windsor tomorrow afternoon
the service for prince philip who died
last week at the age of 99 will be
attended by
30 guests including all his children and
grandchildren
alongside personnel from the armed
forces buckingham palace
said the plans very much reflected the
duke's wishes
charlotte wright has this report
it's a funeral that will in many ways
depart from tradition
not least through this the vehicle that
will carry prince philip's coffin
a modified land rover that the duke
himself helped
design today the final rehearsals for
saturday will begin
every moment meticulously planned and
while the events have been tweaked
due to covid ceremonial aspects will go
ahead
with a procession taking the duke's
coffin from the castle to the chapel
led by the band of the grenadier guards
[Music]
following the hearse on foot will be
nine members of the royal family
in the front rank the princess royal and
the prince of wales
behind them the earl of wessex and the
duke of york
and then princes harry and william but
the two brothers will be separated with
the princess royal's son
peter phillips walking between them
normally the family members who hold
military rank would be wearing military
uniform
like here in 2002 at queen elizabeth the
queen mother's funeral
but in a highly unusual move it's been
announced all the royals will be
in civilian dress a decision signed off
by the queen
it comes after both prince harry and
prince andrew
have stepped back from their military
patronages
inside the chapel the service will be
attended by just 30 people in line with
the coronavirus restrictions
some members of the public have been
keen to lay flowers and
tributes outside and although it has
been discouraged the bouquets have been
gathered in the grounds of marlborough
house
visited by the prince of wales and the
duchess of cornwall
but the palace is reiterating its
request for people not to travel to
windsor tomorrow
and donate to a charity or leave
messages in an online book of condolence
instead
charlotte wright bbc news
well let's speak to our royal
correspondent sarah campbell who's in
windsor
for us this morning good morning to you
sarah so
as we know gradually we're learning more
and more about the detail of the funeral
itself
yes indeed good morning to you charlie
it's another busy start here lots of
vehicles going in and out of windsor
castle obviously final
preparations for tomorrow afternoon's
funeral
i think what we learned yesterday from
the details of specific details of how
the day will play out is really what a
different
royal funeral it will feel like and
that's partly because of the pandemic
the reduced numbers
but it's also because the duke's
personal
imprint is very much on the service i
mean you saw there the pictures of the
modified land rover which
apparently he spent over 16 years sort
of tweaking
and getting it exactly how he wanted it
so in military green
color making sure that the stops were in
exactly
the right place so that the coffin
didn't move around so like i say very
much
his idea he will have chosen the music
the songs which will be sung by the
choir which reduced in number to just
four members and also i think a
particularly nice aspect is that a
bugler will play
action stations now this is sounded on
naval warships to signal that all
handles
all hands must go to battle stations
this was very much at the quest of
prince philip
and honours his active service with the
navy during the second world war so lots
of touches from his perspective
we heard the details yesterday about the
procession so just before three o'clock
this procession will will set off down
towards st
george's chapel uh the duke's coffin
will be uh followed by
members of the royal family and as you
saw there from the
procession layout prince william and
harry who might have been expected to
walk side by side
will instead be separated by peter
phillips who will be
in the middle and we did speak to a
palace spokesman about it yesterday and
his comment on that
was that they wouldn't say anything more
than that this was a funeral
and they won't be drawn into any
perceptions of drama
the arrangements all according to her
majesty's wishes
sarah thank you very much chicago police
have released body camera footage which
shows an officer
shooting dead an unarmed 13 year old boy
in a dark
alley in the footage adam toledo raises
his hands
in the air but police video shows a
handgun was found near the spot where he
fell
as martial reports it comes at a time of
increased tension in the us
over police killings a chicago police
officer
chases 13 year old adam toledo down a
dark alley
before shooting him once in the chest
the boy's actions at that moment have
become a source of contention
initially it was claimed he was holding
a gun
but body cam footage appears to show no
weapon
is visible as he raises his hands
those videos speak for themselves
adam during his last second of life
did not have a gun in his hand
the officer screamed at him show me your
hands
adam complied turned around his hands
were empty
when he was shot in the chest at the
hands of the officer
[Music]
after the shooting the policeman calls
for an ambulance
while urging adam to stay awake cpr
is performed but it's too late
[Applause]
tensions are already high due to the
fatal police shooting
of dante wright in a minneapolis suburb
add to that the ongoing trial in
minneapolis
of derrick chauvin the police officer
accused of killing george floyd who on
thursday was
asked in court if he wants to take the
stand
i will invoke my fifth amendment
privilege today
the decision whether or not to testify
is entirely yours is this your decision
not to testify it does your honor all
right following the release of these
videos
shops were boarded up in chicago leaving
america
with even more uncomfortable questions
to answer
can the sons and daughters of slave
catchers
police the sons and daughters of slaves
and that's part of the problem when you
see the police in their dna
there is the american history of white
supremacy
chicago's mayor condemned what she
called her city's legacy
of police violence and misconduct
leaving its residents
especially those who are black and brown
as she put it
in a constant state of fear and pain
mark lobel bbc news
in scotland more coronavirus
restrictions have been eased ten days
earlier than planned from today
six adults from as many as six different
households can meet outdoors and can
leave their local authority to do so
nicolas sturgeon said good progress had
been made in the vaccination rollout
the government has defended the health
secretary matt hancock after it emerged
a firm he has shares in won a contract
with
nhs wales official records
show the document shredding company was
awarded the contract which is worth 300
000 pounds last month government
spokesperson said mr hancock
had followed the ministerial code and
had no rule
in awarding the contracts it comes as
further lengths emerged between
westminster
a green seal capital the collapsed
lender david cameron
lobbied for
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news